DRAFT: Api key deprecation (#184)
rancher/stackstate-product-docs: docs/latest/modules/en/pages/use/security/k8s-service-tokens.adoc

Use "sts service-token [command] --help" for more information about a command.
----

It's also possible to <<_set_up_a_bootstrap_service_token,set up a bootstrap service token>> when installing SUSE Observability.

=== Create service tokens

[NOTE]
====
The Open Telemetry and Kubernetes StackPacks let you create a subject and service token with all required permissions set up.
====

> To create a service token for SUSE Observability, you can use the `sts` CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a service token for {stackstate-product-name}, you can use the `sts` CLI.
```

✅ Service token created: svctok-aaaaa-bbbb-ccccc-ddddd
----

=== Set up a bootstrap service token

When installing SUSE Observability, it's possible to bootstrap it with a (temporary) service token. This allows for using the CLI without first interacting with SUSE Observability and obtaining an API token from the UI. In order to set this up, you can add the following snippet to the SUSE Observability configuration file:

To configure SUSE Observability to create a bootstrap service token on Kubernetes, The following values need to be added to the file `authentication.yaml`. For example

[,yaml]
----
stackstate:
  authentication:
    serviceToken:
      bootstrap:
        token: <token>
        roles:
          - stackstate-admin
        ttl: 24h
----

> Follow the steps below to configure SUSE Observability to create a bootstrap service token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to configure {stackstate-product-name} to create a bootstrap service token:
```

. In `authentication.yaml` - add the bootstrap token:
 ** *token* - The token that will be created on (initial) start of SUSE Observability.
 ** *roles* - An array of roles that will be assigned to the bootstrap token.
 ** *ttl* - Optional. The time-to-live for the service token, expressed as a duration string.
. Store the file `authentication.yaml` together with the `values.yaml` from the SUSE Observability installation instructions.
. Run a Helm upgrade to apply the changes.
+
[,text]
----
 helm upgrade \
   --install \
   --namespace suse-observability \
   --values values.yaml \
   --values authentication.yaml \
 suse-observability \
 suse-observability/suse-observability
----

[NOTE]
====
*Note:*

* The first run of the helm upgrade command will result in pods restarting, which may cause a short interruption of availability.
* Include `authentication.yaml` on every `helm upgrade` run.

> * The authentication configuration is stored as a Kubernetes secret.

Reviewer 2: Is there any housekeeping that needs to be done when the TTL on the bootstrap service token expires?

====

==== Setup the bootstrap service token from an external secret

> When the bootstrap token should come from an external secret, follow xref:/setup/security/external-secrets.adoc#_getting_authentication_data_from_an_external_secret[these steps] and add the following data:

Reviewer: When the bootstrap token should come from an external secret- This isn't clear. Is it supposed to be - "When the bootstrap token is retrieved from an external secret"?
